>> Melkey: I wanna quickly jump into
functions cuz I know we're writing
into a function, but I kind of cheated
the explanation of it because it's
the func main, so I kinda just wrote it.
I was like, yeah, and
I kinda just skidded my words.
Let's kinda take some time to look
at the function signature in Go.
So I mentioned earlier,
it's the func keyword.
Every function is defined
with the func keyword.
There is no pub or
public predecessor in Go.
If you wanna make a function public,
you'd capitalize it.
I'm gonna express and
go into some of those gotchas.
But for instance,
if I call this function, add,
and I do A-D-D like this,
this is not exported.
Even if it was in an exportable package,
it cannot be exported.
If I only change this,
it is now exportable.
Well, I'll show you in real applications
of some gosh that this leads to.
But for our case, we can just go ahead and
make a quick function called add,
then it's gonna be the parentheses, and
within the parentheses we're gonna
take the arguments for our function.
These are separate with comma so
we can have a, b, okay?
And then here it's the return
type of our function.
So is our function return int type,
string type?
Ours is going return an int and
then the curly braces define the function.
Now, there's a few compiler
errors right away.
One up here says a and b are undefined,
and that is because in every argument
declaration in this parentheses,
you have to specify the type as well.
So in this case, a is gonna be an int,
and b is also going to be an int.
And then we have the missing return,
so the compiler, if it knows
that it's gonna be a return type from
a function, it's gonna expect it.
If I simply just remove this,
that error goes away, okay?
So we can go like this and
we can simply return a + b, okay?
So that's the very simple definition
of functions in Go, name,
arguments with the type specification,
the return type, if it does exist, and
then the actual logic of whatever
goes down in the function itself.
If we wanna use this function,
we can simply just do add and
then put 3, 4, right?
Now, if you see this, is there anything
that looks a little off about this?
>> Speaker 2: The return's
not being caught anywhere.
>> Melkey: Yeah, exactly.
So we could use add(3, 4) like this as
the actual return and just send it out.
I mean, you could definitely do that.
But in Go, you can actually omit
the returns entirely, point blank.
If this function had five
different return types,
we could ignore four of them and
be fine with it, right?
There's a way you can ignore them.
And this falls into conversation of error
handling because in Go, errors are values.
I'm not gonna demonstrate it right here.
You'll see the example of errors when
we create a function that actually
handles an error.
But you can see how that could
be a potential foot gun.
So here in our case, we just do result.
We can do the shorthand notation to
declare that add is gonna give us
the result, all right?
And we can print this, the format,
we'll use just print line.
We can say this is the result.
We can just paste result like this.
If we save it and we flip, you can now
see this is the result, 7, all right?
Nothing too crazy, but
let's say we wanna make another
function that returns two return types.
We could do calculate sum and product.
We can go ahead and take a and
b in a nice little syntax sugar.
It's starting a and b int.
If you know they're going to be the same
type, you can just do int at the end to
cover the grounds of all the arguments
before that int declaration.
And if you want your function to return
more than one type, you have to specify
it with a parentheses with these brackets
here, and you can do int, int, right?
And then we can specify the logic,
this can be return oops,
a + b, a * b, like so.
So one return statement separated by comma
to distinguish between the two different
types that we expect
this function to return.
Then here,
we can just do something like sum, yeah?
>> Speaker 3: Do you have multiples?
If you had a, b, those are both ints.
>> Melkey: Yep.
>> Speaker 3: Is it just like
everything to the left
if you did another type?
>> Melkey: Yeah, so let's say a, b, and
then let's say the next one's gonna be
a float, f would just be float64 bit,
and that's fine.
>> Speaker 3: And
you can put as many before that?
>> Melkey: Yeah, exactly,
we could say name, string, continue this.
If you want name and let's say,
I don't know what else could be a string?
Tree, I don't know, this is first thing
came to my mind, this is all valid.
The only thing that the compiler's gonna
yell at us is it's just unused parameter,
but this, it will still compile,
it's just gonna tell you that you have
unused parameters in your function.
>> Melkey: Okay, so if you wanna get
multiple returns from that function,
we can do something like sum separate
by product or comma separating product.
Same kind of shorthand
notation to calculate sum and
product, let's do 10, 10,
fmt.printf("this is sum %s and
this is product %s\n", sum, product").
Save this and,
sorry these are not strings.
That's an example of the specifier.
These are supposed to be integers,
like so.
So this is the error you get.
This looks really bizarro.
If you run this, that works.
>> Speaker 4: When you're returning
multiple values like that,
is that automatically de-structuring
a two-pool or something, or something or?
If you just stored the result of that,
calculate sum of products
into one variable,
is that a different data type you can
work with or is that not even valid?
>> Melkey: Sorry, what do you mean?
>> Speaker 4: In Python, if you were
to return two values like that,
it'll be returned as tuple.
>> Melkey: Yeah, these are not tuples.
So what you can do, so this is not gonna
be considered tuple because like I
said earlier,
you can just do something like this, and
now we can completely omit the return
type from our calculateSumAndProduct.
Now we just have sum that we deal with.
The compiler's mad at me cuz
we don't know what product is,
cuz I removed it, but
this is completely valid.
>> Speaker 4: So multiple returns
are like a kind of first class idea?
>> Melkey: Exactly, yeah, so every
variable every return type is handled as
a first class citizen that you
can do whatever you want with.